   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
NON-GOVERNMENTAL 
ORGANIZATIONS PROPOSED 
CONSTITUTION 
(AS PER THE SECOND SCHEDULE OF THE NGOS 
CO-ORDINATION REGULATIONS, 1992) 
(rr. 10 (1) (e), 16 (1) (e)) 
 
 
Global Community Initiative for Growth (GCIG) 
 
 
 
 
 
Adopted.......August 2022..... 
Non-Governmental Organizations Co-ordination Act of 1990 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
2 
 
Constitution 
 
 
1 Name  
1.1 The name of the Organization is...Global Community Initiative for Growth ... 
(hereinafter referred to as "the Organization").  
Optional Provisions 
2 Definitions  
2.1 In this Constitution the words and expressions standing in the first c olumn of the 
following table shall bear the meanings set opposite to them respectively in the 
second column thereof, if not inconsistent with the subject or context:  
 
Words and Expressions Meanings  
“The Act”  The Non-Governmental Organizations Co-ordination Act,1990.  
“These Clauses”  The Clauses of this Constitution as now framed or as from 
time to time altered by Special Resolution.  
“The Board”  The Board of Directors for the time being of the Organization 
or the m embers of the Board present at a duly convened 
meeting of the Board at which a quorum is present  
“Chief Executive              A person appointed to perform the duties of the chief executive 
“Officer”                                Officer of the Organization 
“The Organization” The above-named Organization  
 “Director”   A person holding office in the Organization as a Director and 
who is a member of the Board 
“General Meeting”  A meeting of  the Members for the time being of  the 
Organization  
“In Writing”  Written, printed or lithographed or partly one and partly 
another and other modes of representing or reproducing words 
in a visible form 
“Kenya”   The Republic of Kenya 
“Member”                           A person or body corporate admitted to membership of the 
 “Membership”  The state or status of being a Member 
“Month”   Calendar month 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
3 
 
“The Office”  The registered office of the Organization  
“Officers”  Refers to the Organization’s officials 
“Ordinary Resolution” A resolution which has been passed by a majority of  the 
Members as, being entitled so to do, vote in person or proxy at 
a General Meeting of the Organization.  
 “The Seal”  The Common Seal of the Organization.  
“The Secretary”  Any person appointed to perform the duties of  the secretary of 
the Organization.  
“Special Resolution” A resolution which has been passed by a majority of  not less 
than two thirds of  such Members as, being entitled so to do, 
vote in person or in proxy at a General Meeting of  the 
Organization of  which notice specifying the intention to 
propose the resolution as a special resolution has been duly 
given, provided that if it is so agreed by a majority in number 
of the Members having the right to attend and vote at any such 
meeting, together representing not less than seventy -five per 
cent of the total voting rights at  that meeting of  all the 
Members, a resolution may be proposed and passed as a 
special resolution at a meeting of which less than twenty -one 
days' notice has been given.  
 “The Treasurer” Any person appointed to perform the duties of the treasurer of 
the Organization. 
Interpretation 
A reference to any law or legislation or legislative provision includes any statutory 
modification, amendment or re- enactment, and any subordinate legislation or regulations 
issued under t hat legislation or legislative provision, in either case whether before, on or 
after the date of this Constitution. 
A reference to any agreement or document is to that agreement or document as amended, 
novated, supplemented or replaced from time to time. 
A reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a clause, part, 
schedule or attachment of or to this Constitution. 
Where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, another part of speech or other 
grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a corresponding meaning. 
A word which denotes the singular denotes the plural, a word which denotes the plural 
denotes the singular, and a reference to any gender denotes the other genders. 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
4 
 
An expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust, partnership, joint 
venture, association, body corporate or public authority. 
A reference to shillings or KES means Kenya Shillings. 
References to the word ‘include’ or ‘including’ are to be construed without limitation. 
A reference to a time of day means that time of day in the place where the Office is located. 
A reference to a business day means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which all 
banks are open for business generally in the place where the Office is located. 
Where a period of time is specified and dates from a given day or the day of an act or 
event, it must be calculated exclusive of that day. 
A term of this Constitution which has the effect of requiring anything to be done on or by a 
date which is not a business day must be interpreted as if it required it to be done on or by 
the next business day.  Words importing the singular number only shall include the plural 
number and vice-versa;  
Words importing the masculine gender only shall include the feminine or neuter gender; 
and  
Words importing persons shall include corporations.  
Subject as aforesaid any words or expressions defined in the Act or any statutory 
modification thereof in force at the date on which these clauses become binding on the 
Organization shall, if not inconsistent with the subject or context, bear the same meanings 
in these Clauses.  
Mandatory Provisions 
 
3 Situation of Registered Office  
3.1 The Registered Office of the Organization will be situated in Nairobi, Kenya.  
4 Nature of Organization and liability 
Nature of Organization 
4.1 The Organization is a non-governmental organization registered under the Act. 
Liability of Members  
4.2 The liability of the Members is limited to Kshs. 500.  
Contribution of Members to Assets on Winding Up  
4.3 Every Member of the Organiz ation undertakes to contribute to the assets of the 
Organization in the event of its being dissolved or wound up while he is a 
Member, or within one year of his ceasing to be a Member, for payment of the 
debts and liabilities of the Organization contract ed before he ceases to be a 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
5 
 
Member, and t he costs, charges and expenses of dissolution or winding up and 
for the adjustment of the rights of the contributories amongst themselves, such 
sum as may be required not exceeding the sum of Shillings one Thousand only 
(Kshs. 1000).  
5 Main Objects 
5.1 The Organization has the following main object:  
5.1.1 Provide support to communities, persons with disabilities, women, youth, 
children, the elderly and other disadvantaged groups. 
5.1.2 Empower youth to improve opportunit ies for education, training, healthcare 
and socio-economic projects to better their lives..   
5.1.3 Provide motivation and mentorship programmes to students in the affected 
areas. 
 
Specific Objects 
            
5.2 And in furtherance of the principal object, th e O rganization shall have t he 
following ancillary objects and powers:  
5.2.1 Provide academic and financial support in education to learners, 
students and trainees from socially disadvantaged backgrounds. 
5.2.2 Provide academic and financial support in education to learn ers, 
students and trainees with disabilities and special needs. 
5.2.3 Motivate and empower school going children, students and  
trainees, by organizing events in schools. 
5.2.4 Provide basic needs including food, clothing and medical care to 
orphaned children who ar e taking care of their families in various 
communities. 
5.2.5 Leverage in building and equipping local educational institutions for 
the education and training of the communities in the society. 
5.2.6 Leverage in building, managing and running children homes in 
support of children in need. 
5.2.7 Family tracing and assessment of socially disadvantaged children 
in their communities. 
5.2.8 Create awareness on drug and substance abuse and misuse, and 
support the victims impacted and affected. 
5.2.9 Address challenges related to senior citizens. 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
6 
 
5.2.10 Provide assistive devices and technologies for people with 
disabilities. 
5.2.11 Provide women and youth with skill sets and empower them to 
start income generating activities. 
5.2.12 Mainstream gender equality, civic education and safeguard human 
rights in the society. 
5.2.13 Address issues related to gender discrimination and gender -based 
violence. 
5.2.14 Address the digital divide in the communities. 
5.2.15 Address environmental issues related to climate change. 
5.2.16 Address issues of water, sanitation and health. 
5.2.17 Address issues of governance and human rights. 
5.2.18 Provide basic needs including food, clothing and medical care to 
needy elderly persons in various communities 
5.2.19 To take such steps by personal or written appeals, private 
meetings, public meetings or representations to Parliament, 
government entities and other bodies as may be deemed 
expedient to promote any of the objects of the Organization. 
5.2.20 To raise, secure and utilise funds for the attainment of any or all 
objects of the Organization, and to do such other things as are 
incidental or conducive to the attainment of these objects. 
6 Membership 
Members to the organization will include the subscribers to this constitution and shall not 
be less than 5 at any time. The following classes of membership are available:  
Ordinary Membership 
6.1 All members subscribing to this Constitution shall be ordinary members. 
Corporate Membership 
6.2 Corporate Membership shall be open to any association, institution or business 
that is interested in supporting and furthering the aims and objectives of  the 
Organization. 
Honorary Membership 
6.3 The Organization may admit to Honorary Membership any person or corporate 
body whom it wishes to honour for services to the Organization. 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
7 
 
Application for Membership requires proposer and seconder 
6.4 Every application for  membership of the  Organization shall be proposed by one 
and seconded by another Member of the Organization.  
Form of application 
6.5 The form of application for membership will be in the form approved by the Board 
from time to time. 
Admission to membership  
6.6 The Board must cons ider an application for membership at the next meeting of 
the Board after its receipt and determine, in its discretion, the admission or 
rejection of the applicant. 
6.7 The Board does not have to give reasons for rejecting an application. 
6.8 If an applicant is accepted for Membership the Secretary must notify the applicant 
of admission in such form as the Board determines and must enter the name and 
details of the applicant in the register of Members. 
Limits on nomination of Members 
6.9 Current employees of the Organi zation or any subsidiary of the Organization will 
not be eligible for nomination as Members.  
6.10 Persons who have been excluded from membership under the terms of clause 
6.9 will not be eligible for nomination as members for a period of two years from 
the end of their employment with the Organization or any subsidiary of the 
Organization (as applicable). 
6.11 The Membership of persons who subsequently become employees of the 
Organization will lapse on the date that they become an employee of the 
Organization or subsidiary.  
Register of Members 
6.12 A register of the Members of the Organization must be kept at the registered 
offices of the organization.  
6.13 The following details must be entered in the register of Members in respect of 
each Member: 
6.13.1 The full name of the Member. 
6.13.2 The address of the Member and, if any, their telephone and 
facsimile number and email address.  
6.13.3 The date of admission to and cessation of membership. 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
8 
 
6.13.4 In the case of a Member other than an individual the full name, 
address, telephone and  facsimile number and email address, if 
any, of its corporate representative. 
6.13.5 Such other information as the Board may require. 
Change of details 
6.14 Each Member must notify the Secretary in writing of any change in that person‘s 
name, address, telephone or facsimile number within one month after the change. 
7 Removal and cessation of Membership 
Resignation 
7.1 A Member may resign from membership of the Organization by giving written 
notice to the Secretary. 
7.2 The resignation of a Member is deemed to take effect from the date of receipt of 
the notice of resignation or such later date as is provided in the notice.  
Termination of Membership 
7.3 Membership of the Organization will terminate in the following instances: 
7.4 a) If a Member is an individual, the death or bankruptcy of  that Member or th at 
Member becoming of unsound mind or becoming a person whose property is 
liable to be dealt with under a law about mental health. 
7.5 b) If a Member is a body corporate, the de -registration or other dissolution of that 
Member. 
Removal from membership for wilful disregard of this Constitution 
7.6 If a Member wilfully refuses or neglects to comply with the provisions of this 
Constitution or any regulations of the Board made under this Constitution or is 
otherwise guilty of conduct which in the opinion of the Board i s unbecoming of a 
Member or prejudicial to the interests of the Organization, the Board may by way 
of a two -thirds or unanimous vote, order the removal of that person from the 
register of Members. The member being removed should be accorded a right to 
fair hearing by the Board. 
8 Rights of Members non-transferable 
8.1 The rights and privileges of a Member are not transferable during the life of the 
Member and cease upon the person ceasing to be a Member. 
9 Responsibilities of the members 
9.1 Members w ill govern and overse e the operations of the Organization through 
acting as fiduciaries. The Members will be legally, financially and morally 
responsible for the Organization. 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
9 
 
10 No profits for Members 
Transfer of income or property 
10.1 The assets and income of the Organization are to be applied solely in furtherance 
of the objects of the Organization as stated in this Constitution and no income or 
property of the Organization may be paid or transferred, directly or indirectly to 
any Member. 
Provision of services or information 
10.2 Nothing in this clause 10 prevents the Organization from providing services or 
information to the Members on terms which are different from the terms on which 
services or information are provided to persons who are not Members. 
Remuneration 
10.3 Subject to clause 15.3, no remuneration or other benefit in money or money’s 
worth will be paid or given by the Organization to any Director except 
reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses. 
11 The Board of Directors 
Number of Directors  
11.1 The Board shall be the policy organ and s hall unless otherwise varied by a 
special resolution passed at a general meeting the Board consist of a minimum of 
Five (5) and a maximum of nine (9) members, three of whom will fill the honorary 
posts of Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer . In instances where the Chairman is 
absent, the Board members can elect one of their own to act in that position; the 
Chief Executive Officer shall be an Ex-Officio member of the Board. 
The Management Structure 
11.2 The Chief Executive Officer shall head the secretariat and shall be assisted by the 
employees of the Organisation to manage the day -to-day affairs of the 
Organisation.  The management may pay all expenses incurred in setting up and 
registering the Organisation and may exercise such powers of the Organisation 
as are required by the constitution to be exercised to achieve the objectives of the 
Organisation. No regulations made by the Organisation in a General Meeting 
shall invalidate any prior act of the management, which would have been valid, if 
such regulations had not been made.  
11.3 The Chief Executive Officer shall be an ex -officio member of and may be 
Secretary to the Board.  
 
Duties of the Board  

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
10 
 
11.4 The Board will appoint and remove Directors by way of a formal resolution that is 
duly passed at a properly constituted meeting of the Board.  
11.5 A resolution shall be put by the Chair at each annual General Meeting of 
Members to confirm the decisions made under clause 12.2 by the Board since the 
previous annual General Meeting. 
11.6 The Board may exercise all those  powers of the Organi zation as are not, by this 
Constitution, required to be exercised by the Members in General Meeting or 
otherwise. 
By - laws  
11.7 The Board may make by -laws, rules and regulations and may amend or rescind 
from time to time any such by -laws, rules or regulati ons provided they are not 
inconsistent with this Constitution. Any such by-laws, rules and regulations made, 
must be in the opinion of the Board, necessary or desirable for the proper control, 
administration and management of the Organization’s operations,  finances, 
affairs, interests, effects and property and the duties, obligations and 
responsibilities of the Members. 
Chairperson’s responsibilities  
11.8 Leading the Board on organizational and financial aspects to ensure legal 
compliance. 
11.9 Planning the annual cycle of Board meetings. 
11.10 Overseeing /chairing Board and executive committee meetings. 
11.11 Working in partnership with the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) to make sure 
Board resolutions are carried out. 
11.12 Calling special meetings as necessary. 
11.13 Assisting the CEO in preparing the agenda for Board meetings. 
11.14 Subject to the terms of this Constitution dealing with adjournment of meetings, the 
ruling of the chairperson on all matters relating to the order of business, 
procedure and conduct of the General Meeting is final. 
11.15 The Chairperson, in his discretion, may expel any Member or Director from a 
General Meeting if the Chairperson reasonably considers that the Member or 
Director’s conduct is inappropriate behaviour.  
Secretary’s responsibilities 
12.24 Keeping minutes of the meetings of the Board and General Meetings. 
12.25 Carrying out all correspondence on behalf of the Organization. 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
11 
 
12.26 Arranging for meetings of the organization on instructions of the Board of 
Directors or in special circumstances on the instructions of General Meetings. 
12.27 Ensuring that all necessary documents are lodged with the appropriate legal or 
regulatory authority within the prescribed timeframe. 
12.28 Chairing meetings in the absence of the Chairperson. 
Treasurer’s responsibilities 
11.27 Keeping a proper accounting basis of all the financial records of the Organization;  
11.28 Opening a bank account on the advice of the Board and ensuring that all 
drawings from the account are properly authorised;  
11.29 Providing reports on the financial statem ent of the Organiz ation and audited 
accounts to the General Meeting.  
12 Meetings  
Convening of meetings by the Board 
12.1 All normal meetings of the Board shall be summoned by the Secretary, acting in 
consultation with the Chairperson, by giving at least five day s notice  
accompanied by the proposed agenda.  
12.2 A member of the Board may request for a meeting, and on the request of at  
least two members of the Board, the Secretary shall at any time summon  
a meeting of the Board by at least twenty one days of notice s erved upon  
the several members of the Board, with an indication of the proposed agenda. 
General Meetings 
12.3 The Organization shall in each year hold a General Meeting as the Annual 
General Meeting, in addition to any other meetings in that year and shall specify 
the meeting as s uch in the notice calling it. Not more than fifteen months shall 
elapse between the date of one Annual General Meeting of the Organization and 
that of the next.  
The Annual General Meeting shall be held at such time and place as the Board 
shall appoint.  
12.4 The Annual General Meeting shall be called Ordinary General Meeting and all 
other general meetings shall be called Extraordinary General Meetings 
Notice of General Meeting 
12.5 Thirty days’ notice at least of every General Meeting will be gi ven in the manner 
provided by this Constitution to the Members and such persons as are otherwise 
entitled under this Constitution to receive notice provided that, in the 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
12 
 
circumstances and subject to the conditions specified in the Act, a meeting may 
be called by notice shorter than specified in this clause. 
12.6 The notice of a General Meeting must specify the place, the day and the hour of 
meeting and if the meeting is to be held in two or more places, the technology or 
form of communication that will be used t o facilitate the m eeting, the general 
nature of the business to be transacted and any other matters. 
12.7 A notice of a General Meeting may be given by any form of communication 
permitted by the Board. 
Eligible Members 
12.8 Without limiting clause 7.4, only persons or other entities who or which have been 
admitted to Membership no later than one month in advance of any General 
Meeting of the Organization will be eligible to receive notice of that meeting, to 
receive copies of the Directors’ and auditors’ reports conc erning the precedi ng 
financial year and to vote at that meeting. 
12.9 Only persons or other entities who or which have been admitted to Membership 
no later than one month in advance of any given extraordinary General Meeting of 
the Organization will be eligible to receive notice of that meeting and to vote at 
that meeting.   
Quorum at General Meetings 
12.10 Business may not be transacted at a General Meeting unless a quorum of 
Members is present at the time when the meeting proceeds to business. 
12.11 Except as otherwise se t out in this Cons titution, half of the Members present in 
person or by proxy or representative is a quorum. 
If a quorum is not present 
12.12 If a quorum is not present within half an hour from the time appointed for the 
meeting or a longer period allowed by the chairperson: 
12.12.1 If the meeting was convened by or on the requisition of Members, it 
must be dissolved. 
12.12.2 Otherwise, it must stand adjourned to the same day in the next 
week at the same time and place or to another day and at another 
time and place determined by the Board.  
12.13 If a  meeting has been adjourned to another time and place determined by the 
Board, not less than seven days’ notice of the adjourned meeting must be given 
in the same manner as in the case of the original meeting. 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
13 
 
Quorum at adjourned General Meetings 
12.14 At the adjou rned meeting, two Members present in person or by proxy or 
representative is a quorum. 
Appointment of Chairperson 
12.15 A nominee Director or his proxy shall preside as Chairperson at every General 
Meeting of the Organization. If there is no chair, or if he i s n ot present within 
fifteen minutes after the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or is 
unwilling to act, another Director elected by Members present shall preside as 
Chairperson.   
Adjournment of meetings 
12.16 The Chairperson may, with the consent o f a ny meeting at which a quorum is 
present, and must if so directed by the meeting, adjourn the meeting to another 
time and to another place.  
12.17 The only business that may be transacted at any adjourned meeting is the 
business left unfinished at the meeting from which the adjournment took place. 
12.18 When a meeting is adjourned for thirty days or more, notice of the adjourned 
meeting must be given as in the case of an original meeting. 
12.19 Except when a meeting is adjourned for thirty days or more, i t is not necessary to 
give a notice of an adjournment or of the business to be transacted at an 
adjourned meeting. 
Voting by show of hands 
12.20 At a General Meeting a resolution put to the vote of the meeting must be decided 
on a show of hands.  A declaration by the chairperson that a resolution has on a 
show of hands been carried or carried unanimously, or by a particular majority, or 
lost, and an entry to that effect in the minutes of the proceedings of the 
Organization, is conclusive evidence of the fact without proof of the numb er or 
proportion of the votes recorded in favour of or against the resolution. 
Voting rights of Members 
12.21 Every Member present in person or by proxy or representative has one vote. 
Vote of the chairperson at General Meetings 
12.22 In the case of an equality of votes the chairperson of a General Meeting is entitled 
to a second or casting vote. 
Objections to voter qualification 
12.23 No objection may be raised to the qualification of a voter except at the meeting or 
adjourned meeting at which the vote objected to is given or tendered. 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
14 
 
12.24 An objection to the qualification of a voter must be referred to the chairperson, 
whose decision is final. 
12.25 A vote not disallowed according to an objection as provided in this Constitution is 
valid for all purposes. 
Mode of meeting for Members 
12.26 The General Meeting of the Organization shall be held at such time and place as 
the Board shall appoint and may be conducted with participation by Members in 
person or means of conference call or other communication facilities as permi t all 
Members participating in the meeting to hear each other simultaneously and such 
participation shall constitute a presence at a meeting of the Members as if those 
participating were present in person.  
Resolution in writing 
12.27 A resolution in writing signed by all Members, excluding Members who have been 
given leave of absence, is to be treated as a determination of the Members 
passed at a meeting of the Members duly convened and held. 
Form of resolution in writing 
12.28 A resolution in writing may consist of several documents in like form, each signed 
by all the Members and if so signed it takes effect on the latest date on which a 
Member signs one of the documents. 
12.29 If a resolution in writing is signed by a proxy of a Member, it must not also be 
signed by the appointing Member and vice versa. 
12.30 In relation to a resolution in writing a document generated by electronic means 
which purports to be a facsimile of a resolution of Members is to be treated as a 
resolution in writing and a document bearing a facsimile of a  signature is to be 
treated as signed. 
13 Proxies and representatives 
Proxies and representatives of Members 
13.1 At meetings of Members a Member may vote in person or by proxy.  A Member 
which is a corporation may appoint an individual as a representative.  
13.2 Subject to the terms of  their appointment, a person attending as a proxy of a 
Member, or as representing a corporation which is a Member has all the powers 
of a Member, except where expressly stated to the contrary. 
Appointment of proxies 
13.3 A Member may appoint another person as t heir proxy to attend and vote instead 
of the Member.  A proxy must be a Member or, in the case of a corporate 
Member, an authorised representative of such Member  

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
15 
 
13.4 A document appointing a proxy must be in writing, and signed by the Member 
making the appointment. 
Authority of proxies 
13.5 A document appointing a proxy may specify the manner in which the proxy is to 
vote in respect of a particular resolution and, where the document so provides, 
the proxy is not entitled to vote on the resolution except as specified  in the 
document. 
13.6 Except as expressly provided by the document appointing a proxy, an 
appointment of a proxy confers authority to do all things that the Member can do 
in respect of a General Meeting. 
Verification of proxies 
13.7 Before the tim e for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which a proxy 
proposes to vote, the document appointing the proxy must be deposited with the 
Organization.  
13.8 This document must be received at the Office, at a fax number or the specified 
electronic address at the Office or a t a nother place, fax number or electronic 
address specified for that purpose in the notice convening the meeting, not less 
than twenty four hours before the time for holding the meeting. 
Validity of proxies 
13.9 A proxy document is invalid if it is not deposited or produced prior to a meeting or 
a vote being taken as required by this Constitution. 
Revocation of appointment of proxy 
13.10 A vote given in accordance with the terms of a proxy document is valid despite 
the occurrence of any one or more of the following ev ents if no intimation in 
writing of any of those events has been received by the Organization at the Office 
before the commencement of the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the 
document is used: 
13.10.1 The previous death or unsoundness of mind of the principal. 
13.10.2 The revocation of the instrument or of the authority under which the 
instrument was executed. 
14 Proceedings of the Board 
Convening of Board meetings 
14.1 Any of the following persons may convene a meeting of the Board at any time: 
14.1.1 The Chair. 
14.1.2 Any two Directors. 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
16 
 
Notice of Board meetings 
14.2 Notice of each meeting of the Board must be given to each Director at least five 
business days before the meeting or at another time determined by resolution of 
the Board. 
14.3 Despite that requirement, the Board may waive in writing t he required period of 
notice for a particular meeting and it is not necessary to give a notice of a meeting 
of the Board to a Director who has been given leave of absence. 
Mode of meeting for the Board 
14.4 The Board meetings shall be held at such time and place or manner as the Board 
determines and may be conducted with participation by Directors in person or 
means of conference call or other communication facilities as permit all Directors 
participating in the meeting to hear each other simul taneously and such  
participation shall constitute a presence at a meeting of the Board as if those 
participating were present in person.  
Elections and Quorum at Board meetings 
14.5 Elections for Board members and officials of the organization who shall include  
but not limited t o t he Chair, Secretary, Treasurer and other members shall be 
conducted at an Annual General Meeting of the Members after every three (3) 
years following the year of the last election. 
14.6 The tenure of office for all elected officials shall be three (3) years and shall be 
renewable once upon re-election. An official who has served for an aggregate six 
(6) year period shall only be eligible for another election to the same or new 
position after a new set of officials have served for a minimum of three (3) years. 
14.7 At a meeting of the Board, the number of Directors whose presence is necessary 
to constitute a quorum is two.  
If the number of Directors is reduced below the number necessary for a quorum 
of the Board, the continuing Director or Directors may act only in any of the 
following circumstances: 
14.7.1 In the case of emergency. 
14.7.2 For the purpose of filling up vacancies. 
14.7.3 For the purpose of convening a General Meeting. 
Voting at Board meetings 
14.8 Questions arising at a Board meeting must be decided by a maj ority of votes of 
Directors present and voting, 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
17 
 
Chairperson at meetings  
14.9 The Chair shall preside as chairperson at every meeting of the Board.  
14.10 If there is no Chair or if at any meeting, the Chair is not present within 10 minutes 
after the time appointed f or holding the meetin g, or if being present, the Chair is 
unwilling to preside, the Board may choose a Director present to chair the 
meeting. 
Chairperson’s vote at Board meetings 
14.11 In the event of a tied vote at meetings of the Board, the chairperson has a second 
or casting vote. 
Participation where Directors interested 
14.12 A Director must disclose any interest to the Board at a meeting in which the 
proposed contract is being taken under consideration. A Director who has a 
material personal interest in a matter t hat is being considered at a meeting of the 
Board must not do either of the following: 
14.12.1 Be present while the matter is being considered at the meeting. 
14.12.2 Vote in respect of that matter or that proposed resolution. 
14.13 A Director may still execute on behalf of the  Organization any doc ument in 
respect of any contract or arrangement in which he or she is interested.  
Validity of acts  
14.14 All acts done by a meeting of the Board or by a person acting as a Director are 
valid even if it is later discovered that there is a defect in the appoi ntment of a 
person or that they or any of them were disqualified or were not entitled to vote.  
Minutes 
14.15 The Board must cause minutes of all proceedings of General Meetings and of 
meetings of the Board to be entered, within one month after  the relevant meeting 
is held, in books kept for the purpose. 
14.16 The Board must cause all minutes communicating changes in the organization or 
in any other way relevant to the Regulator to be so filed with the Regulator within 
14 days from the date of the meeting. 
14.17 The Board mu st cause all minutes, except resolutions in writing treated as 
determinations of the Board, to be signed by the chairperson of the meeting at 
which the proceedings took place or by the chairperson of the next succeeding 
meeting. 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
18 
 
15 Directors’ Remuneration 
Payment for expenses 
15.1 Directors may be paid all travelling, accommodation, and other expenses properly 
incurred by them in attending and returning from meetings of the Board or 
General Meeting or otherwise in the execution of their duties as Directors. 
Directors fees 
15.2 Subject to clauses 15.3 and 15.4, the Directors are not entitled to any 
remuneration by virtue only of their position as Directors.   
Payment for services 
15.3 A Director who, with the unanimous approval of the Board, other than the Director 
or Directors affected, is called upon to perform extra services or to make a special 
exertion or to undertake executive or other work for the Organization beyond or 
outside of the Director’s ordinary duties or is engaged to provide any other 
service, may be paid a fee f or those services, exertions or work. Such 
transactions must be reported in the annual report of the Organization as related 
party transactions.  
15.4 The amount may be paid either by fixed sum or in such other manner as is 
determined by the Board.  
16 No alternate Directors 
16.1 No Director is entitled to appoint a person to act as an alternate Director for them. 
16.2 Board Vacation of office 
16.3 The office of Director becomes vacant if any of the following occurs: 
16.3.1 If a receiving order is made against him or he makes any 
arrangement or composition with his creditors. 
16.3.2 If the Director becomes of unsound mind or a person whose 
person or estate is liable to be dealt with in any way under the law 
relating to mental health. 
16.3.3 If the Director is absent without the consent of the Organiza tion 
from the meetings of the Board held during a continuous period of 
six months. 
16.3.4  If by notice in writing to the Organization he resigns his office. 
16.3.5 If he is removed from office by a resolution duly passed under 
clause 11.2. 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
19 
 
16.3.6 If he is  a Member and is r emoved from Membership of the 
Organization pursuant to a resolution of the Organization under 
clause 7.4 hereof. 
16.3.7 If he has been appointed a Director by virtue of being the Chief 
Executive Officer of the Organization and no longer holds this post. 
17 Indemnity and Insurance 
Indemnity 
17.1 Every Officer, Director and other officer and every past Officer, Director and other 
officer of the Organization is indemnified by the Organization, to the fullest extent 
permitted by law, against a liability incurred by that person a s an officer of the 
Organization or a subsidiary of the Organization, including legal costs and 
expenses incurred in defending an action.  
Insurance premiums 
17.2 The Organization may pay the premium on a contract insuring a person who is or 
has been an Offi cer, Director or other officer of the Organization to the fullest 
extent permitted by law. 
18 Seals and execution of documents 
Custody of Seal 
18.2 If the Organization has one, the Board must provide for the safe custody of the 
Seal. 
Execution of documents 
18.3 The Organization may execute a document by affixing the Seal to the document 
where the fixing of the Seal is witnessed by any of the following: 
18.3.1 By two Directors. 
18.3.2 By a Director and some other person appointed by the Board for 
the purpose. 
18.4 The Organization may exec ute a document without the use of a seal if the 
document is signed by either of the following: 
18.4.1 By two Directors. 
18.4.2 By a Director and a Secretary. 
18.4.3 By a Director or an Officer of the Organization provided that such 
Director or Officer is duly  authorised to sign t he document by the 
Board.  
Official seals 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
20 
 
18.5 The Organization may have for use in place of the Seal outside the jurisdiction 
where the Seal is kept one or more official seals, to be used in accordance with 
procedures approved by the Board. 
19 Surplus assets on winding up or dissolution of the Organization 
Remaining property after winding up or dissolution to be distributed to like 
organization 
19.1 Upon the winding up or dissolution of the Organization, any remaining property 
after satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, will not be paid to or distributed among 
the Members, but will be given or transferred to another non- profit making 
institution or some other institution which then satisfies both of the following 
requirements: 
19.1.1 It has objects similar to the objects of the Organization. 
19.1.2 Its constituent documents prohibit the distribution of its income and 
property among its members on terms substantially to the effect of 
clause 9. 
Provided that such non-profit making institution or institutions shall be determined 
by the Members of the Organization at or before the time of dissolution, and in 
default thereof by a Judge of the High Court of Kenya, and if and so far as effect 
cannot be given to the aforesaid provisions then to some other charitable object. 
20 Audit and records 
Audit 
20.1 A registered auditor must be appointed by a resolution put to the annual General 
Meeting. The remuneration of the auditor must be fixed and the auditor’s duties 
regulated in accordance with this Constitution. 
20.2 A Member of the Board or other Off icer of the Organization shall not be capable 
of being appointed Auditor of the Organization.  
20.3 The Board may fill any casual vacancy in the office of Auditor, but while any such 
vacancy continues, the surviving or continuing Auditor or Auditors, if any, may act.  
20.4 The remuneration of the Auditors of the Organization shall be fixed at the Annual 
General Meeting, except that the remuneration of any Auditors appointed to fill 
any casual vacancy may be fixed by the Board.  
20.5 Every Auditor of the Organization shall have a right to see all vouchers of the 
Organization and shall be entitled to access at all times to the books and 
accounts and require from the Board and other Officers of the Organization such 
information and explanations as may be nec essary for the per formance of the 
duties of an Auditor.  

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
21 
 
20.6 The Auditor shall make a report to the Members of the accounts examined by 
them and on every balance sheet laid before the Organization at its annual 
General Meeting during their tenure of office, and the report shall state:  
20.6.1 Whether or not they have obtained all the information and 
explanations they have required; and  
20.6.2 Whether, in their opinion, the balance sheet referred to in the report 
is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the 
state of th e O rganization's affairs according to the best of their 
information and the explanation given to them, and as shown by 
the books of the Organization.  
20.7 The balance sheet shall be signed on behalf of the Board by two of the members 
of the Board one of whom must be the nominee of the Principal Member, and the 
Auditor's report shall be attached to the balance sheet, or there shall be inserted 
at the foot of the balance sheet a reference to the report, and the report shall be 
presented to the O rganization at the annual General Meeting, and shall be open 
to inspection by any Member.  
21 Inspection of Books of Account and List of Members  
21.1 The books of account and all documents relating thereto and list of Members of 
the Organization shall be availabl e for inspection at t he Office by any member of 
the Board or Member of the Organization on giving not less than seven days 
notice in writing to the Organization.  
22 Notices 
Persons authorised to give notices 
22.1 A notice by either the Organization or a Member in  connection with t his 
Constitution may be given on behalf of the Organization or Member by a Director 
or the Secretary of the Organization or Member. 
22.2 The signature of a person on a notice given by the Organization may be written, 
printed, stamped or an electronic reproduction of a written signature. 
Method of giving notices 
22.3 In addition to the method for giving notices permitted by statute, a notice by the 
Organization or a Member in connection with this Constitution may be given to the 
addressee by any of the following means: 
22.3.1 By delivering it to a street address of the addressee. 
22.3.2 By sending it by prepaid ordinary post (airmail if outside Kenya) to 
a street or postal address of the addressee. 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
22 
 
22.3.3 By sending it by facsimile or e -mail to the facsimile number or e -
mail address of the addressee. 
Addresses for giving notices to Members 
22.4 The street address or postal address of a Member is the street or postal address 
of the Member shown in the Register. 
22.5 The facsimile number or e -mail address of a Member is the number whi ch the 
Member may specify by written notice to the Organization as the facsimile 
number or e-mail address to which notices may be sent to the Member. 
Address for giving notices to the Organization 
22.6 The street and postal address of the Organization is the Office. 
22.7 The facsimile number or e- mail address of the Organization is the number which 
the Organization may specify by written notice to the Members as the facsimile 
number or e-mail address to which notices may be sent to the Organization. 
Time notices are given 
22.8 A notice given in accordance with this Constitution is to be taken as given, served 
and received at the following times: 
22.8.1 If delivered in writing to the street address of the addressee, at the 
time of delivery. 
22.8.2 If it is sent by post to the street or postal address of t he addressee, 
on the 2nd (5th if outside Kenya) business day after posting. 
22.8.3 If sent by facsimile or e- mail to the facsimile number or e- mail 
address of the addressee, at the time transmission is completed. 
Proof of giving notices 
22.9 The sending of a notice by  facsimile or e -mail and the time of completion of 
transmission may be proved conclusively by production of the relevant one of the 
following: 
22.9.1 A transmission report by the facsimile machine from which the 
notice was transmitted which indicates that a facsimile of the notice 
was sent in its entirety to the facsimile number of the addressee. 
22.9.2 A print out of an acknowledgment of receipt of the e-mail. 
Persons entitled to notice of meeting 
22.10 Notice of every General Meeting must be given by a method authorised by t his 
Constitution to all of the following persons: 
22.10.1 Every Member. 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
23 
 
22.10.2 Every Director. 
22.11 No other person is entitled to receive notices of General Meeting. 
23 Exercise of powers 
23.1 Except as specifically contemplated to the contrary in this Constitution, the 
Organization may, in any manner permitted by the Act, exercise any power, take 
any action or engage in any conduct or procedure which is permitted under the 
Act.   
24 Financial Year 
The financial year of the Organisation shall begin on the first day of January and 
end on the last day of December of every year. 
 
Amendments to this Constitution 
24.1 Subject to the provisions of the Act and Regulation 21 of the Non Governmental 
Organizations Co- ordination Regulations of 1992,  the Organization may by 
Special Resolution passed at a General Meeting of the Members, alter, amend, 
modify or repeal this Constitution or adopt a new Constitution or change the name 
of the Organization, provided that no such alteration, amendment or modification 
shall be made which shall i mpair or prejudice the effectiveness of the prohibition 
contained in clauses 9 and 19 hereof against distribution of the income, property 
and assets of the Organization to the Members.  
 
25 Dissolution or Winding Up  
25.1 The Organization shall not be dissolved or  wound up except by a  Special 
Resolution passed at a General Meeting of the Members. The quorum at the 
meeting shall be fifty percent of all Members of the Organization. If no quorum is 
obtained, the proposal to dissolve or wind up the Organization shall be submitted 
to a f urther General Meeting which shall be held one month later. Notice of this 
meeting shall be given to all Members of the Organization at least fourteen days 
before the date of the meeting. The quorum for this second meeting shall be the 
number of Members pr esent provided however that no dissolution or winding up 
shall be effected without the prior consent in writing of the Non- Governmental 
Organizations Co -ordination Board obtained upon application to the Executive 
Director for the time bei ng of the Board and s igned by three Officers of the 
Organization.  

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
24 
 
25.2 Upon dissolution of the Organisation, its remaining assets shall be 
distributed to another Organisation with similar objectives. 
 
WE, the several persons whose names and addresses are subsc ribed hereby adopt  this 
Constitution as the new Constitution of the Organization.  
________________________________________________________________________ 
 
Names, Postal Addresses , position held  and 
Occupations of Subscribers 
Signatures of Subscribers 
Prof Jane Catherine Ngila 
PO Box 22802-00400 Nairobi, Kenya 
Board Chair 
Acting Executive Director, the African Academy of Sciences 
 
 
Ms Rose Kanini Mwambua 
PO Box xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 
 
Ms Gertrude Naomi Kamwaro 
PO Box xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 
 
 
Names, Postal Addresses , positions held  and 
Occupations of Officers 
Signatures of Officers 
 
Ms Charity Makena Ojepat 
PO Box xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 
 
 
Ms Jacinta Mwelu Masila 
PO Box xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 
 

   
 
 
……………………………… ……………………………  ……………………………….. 
 
25 
 
 
  
OTHER MEMBERS 
1. Ms Joyce Mutindi Muthama: PO Box    xxxxx 
2. Mr Martin Mwongela Kavua: PO Box   xxxxxxxxx 
3. Ms Serah Mwelu Nthenge: PO Box   xxxxxxxxx 
4. Mr Leonard Saidim Joseph: PO Box   xxxxxxxxx 
 